The Sound of the Auspicious Conch1
A Prayer for the Long Life of the All-Knowing Paṇchen Rinpoche of Tsang
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

om swasti
Oṃ svasti!
deden shying gi gönpo ö tayé
Lord Amitābha, 'Boundless Light', of the blissful realm of Sukhāvatī
dengdir ngabgyé dro nam kyobpé gön
Manifest here and now in an emanated form garbed in saffron robes,
ngurmik gargyi zuk su tön dzepa
A protector for the beings of this five-hundred-year dark age—
penchen tamché khyenpar shyabten sol
All-knowing Paṇchen Lama, may your life may remain secure.

kalzang tarpa döpé lodrö kyi
Sovereign of Dharma, sole friend of the blossoming water lily
kumü shyepé nyen chik chö kyi gyal
Of intelligence in those fortunate beings who seek liberation,
wang chü pal gyi chukpé drenpa chok
Supreme guide, rich with the splendour of the ten powers—2
shyabpé dorjé tri la takten sol
May your lotus feet remain forever secure upon the vajra throne.

chepé khé mang jewé yiga trok
In exposition, you captivate the minds of many million scholars,
tsöpé loktok drakri chemar tak
In debate, you reduce to dust the mountains of erroneous views,
tsompé tubten chö dong dzepar jé
In composition, you embellish the shrine of the Sage’s teachings—
künkhyen gyalwa nyipar shyabten sol
Second all-knowing Victorious One, may your life remain secure.

künzik khyen tsé nüpé ter chenpo
All-seeing one, great treasury of knowledge, love and spiritual capacity,
gangchen ten drö kyab chik wang gi gyal
Mighty king, sole refuge of the teachings and beings in this Land of Snows,
gödö rekong yishyin rinpoche
Wish-granting jewel to fulfil our hopes and furnish our needs and desires—
dribmé dorjé tri la tenshyuk sol
I pray that you may remain securely without obstacle upon the vajra throne.

ku chok tsenpé kyilkhor nyi shyin sal
With your supreme form, a maṇḍala of signs and marks, as radiant as the sun,
sung gi drayang tsangpé dang tar nyen
With the sound of your speech as sweetly harmonious as the voice of Brahma,
tuk kyi sangwa zab ching ting pak ka
And with the secret of your mind profound and difficult to fathom—
gyal kün düpé ngowor shyabten sol
Essential embodiment of all the victorious ones, may your life remain secure.

detar solwa tabpé dön dré zang
May the excellent goal of this prayer be fulfilled without obstacle
gekmé drubpar sé ché gyalwa yi
Through the truth and blessings of the victorious ones and their heirs,
denpé jin lab jamgön tsongkhapé
And may the teachings of the gentle lord Tsongkhapa
tenpa nyammé dargyé yün né shok
Never decline but flourish and endure long into the future!

Thus, honouring at my crown the command of Dagchen Rinpoche, Ngawang Kunga Sonam, of glorious
Sakya’s Puntsok Palace, I, Chökyi Lodrö, who holds the name of a tulku of Jamyang Khyentse
and who has a mind of unshakeable faith and devotion for all teachings without sectarian
bias, offered this prayer. May it bring virtue and goodness! Sarva maṅgalaṃ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Sources
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gtsang paN chen thams cad mkhyen par zhabs brtan du gsol ba
bkra shis skye lnga'i sgra dbyangs/" in gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/ (dbu
med/). 8 vols. Gangtok: Dzongsar Khyentse Labrang, 1981–1985 (BDRC W21813). Vol. 7: 407–408
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gtsang paN chen thams cad mkhyen par zhabs brtan du gsol ba
bkra shis skye lnga'i sgra dbyangs/" in 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12
vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986. Vol. 3: 421–422

Version: 1.0-20220203
↑ skye lnga (Skt. pañcajanya), the conch of Viṣṇu.↑ The lines of this verse incorporate the
syllables of the Paṇchen Lama’s name: Chökyi Wangchuk (chos kyi dbang phyug).